# GMXAnalysis
For the purpose of post progressing of MD carried by gromacs  
This repository is used to store some useful scripts for MD analysis.



# Content:
- DCCM.py: a python script to read xtc and generate the DCCM(Dynamical Cross-Correlation Matrix) automatically
- tpr2gro.py: generate the gro file from tpr file (tpr should be converted )  
- genxyz_gui.py: generate a set of gaussian input files for rigid scan  
- ss.py/ss.jl: generate a secondary structure map with the file generated by dssp
- MMPBSAv1.7: [under development] to calculate protein/ligand binding energy. only need `tpr` `xtc` `ndx` file. current support calculate MM\PB\SA\entropy contribution\Debek Huckell Correction. To do: (1) specify differnt radius(current:mbondi) (2) normal mode analysis (3) calculate with diffenert Dielectric constant。
- mdana: [not yet started] a md analysis script written in rust.  


# Usage:
## DCCM.py
> required packages:
> - pandas
> - matplotlib
> - numpy
> - sys
> - mdanalysis   
 
**command:**   
`python DCCM.py md.gro md.xtc`

## tpr2gro.py
you should use `gmx dump` command to convert `.tpr` file to readable `out` file.  
Then use the command below:  
**command:**    
`python tpr2gro.py md.out`

## genxyz_gui.py
This script is used to generate a set of gaussian input files from the molecule initial position to the end position for the purpose of rigid scanning.  no-gui version is also provided.

> required packages:
> - numpy
> - pandas
> - math

**command:**    
`python genxyz_gui.xyz`

## ss.py/ss.jl
This script is used to generate a picture of protein's secondary structure. Meanwhile, it needs the program `dssp` to generate the assignment file `xx.dssp`
It only works for proteins which contains less than 500 amino acids. 

> required packages:
> python ver.
> - matplotlib 3.5.2
> - dssp 3.0.0
> julia ver.
> - luxor

**command:**    
`python ss.py xx.dssp`
`julia ss.jl xx.dssp`

## XVG2SVG
Convert XVG file to SVG file    
**Additionally, it supports outputting ASCII plots to the terminal, making it convenient for users to analyze RMSD/RMSF files on the cluster.**



